it's at winters this series is not to
slander Bertling hat at winters this is
an exposed began agenda for what it is
my source does not want to be named it
will stay anonymous because of the great
danger that comes with exposing the
vision but how come that such a humble
animal activist in his early twenties
can open up vegan restaurant on unity
diner in Hoxton London the rental unit
price in Hoxton month is around about
thirty thousand pounds per year
how can at the windows before how come
that he lives which is the most
expensive place in the UK and it's not
exactly the center of equity farming
either the company behind unity diamond
is twigs and grass ltd in the UK you can
search a company by simply using two
Companies House website but when I
pulled up this company directors
but weeks rest LCD p iphone the name
edward and the thing is you've got to
remember that black people and women
used to be oppressed like we oppress
animals today they used to be viewed as
less than and that's exactly how we view
animals we view them is less than humans
like we used to be black people is less
than white people are women less than
men it's the same idea and it's very
very convenient to be the oppressor and
to judge those who are speaking on
behalf of the victims because you're the
oppressor and you like the position
you're in you're in the position of
privilege in the position of power so
when people try and take that away for
you by saying hang on maybe not as
important as you first thought you were
I think the most fundamental part of
earthling Ed's approach is what he says
second not first year where he suggests
that the objectives of veganism are to
eliminate any barrier of more than
versus less than in the relations of
human versus animals and I actually
object to that I I don't accept his
assumptions here I don't accept the
logic of his argument I don't think this
is a meaningful way to present veganism
to outsiders I don't think it's a
meaningful way to practice veganism in
your own life if you really say that you
want to eliminate the distinction of
better than and less than that separates
humans from animals what does that mean
for the cockroaches in your life what
does that mean for the bedbugs that may
invest your apartment what does that
mean for bees and mosquitoes guys what
does it mean for chickens whether you're
talking about chickens that are on a
farm or chickens that are in a sanctuary
or chickens that are actually living in
the wilderness in the wild what I want
for chickens cows and pigs whether
they're currently in cages currently in
sanctuaries or actually living in the
wild type of pigs as wild boars if
they've actually living that quality of
life living a life with dignity and a
death with dignity out in the wilderness
not as human pets not as human
playthings but its independent from
human beings I can describe that in
terms of their independence from people
and I can also describe it in terms of
their dependence upon
because whether animals on a farm in a
sanctuary or in the wilderness the
reality is they rely on human beings
whether it's the human beings that are
literally feeding them you know on a
sanctuary feeding them providing them
with veterinary care and so on or if
it's just the human beings who organize
and manage the wildlife preservation
area the National Park whatever it might
be where these animals are living it's
fundamentally absurd and incoherent for
earthling yet to describe the objectives
of the vegan movement in terms of
eliminating any barrier of less than
that's his his word that's not my
objective in the vegan movement my
objectives are attainable my objectives
are neither equal rights for animals nor
equal opportunity freezing this in terms
of privilege and power eliminating
unequal privilege and power are you
really claiming that there's going to
come a day in the future when human
beings do not have privilege over
cockroaches when human beings do not
have privilege and power over bears in
the wild or pigs in any of those three
phases pigs on a farm pigs in a
sanctuary pigs in the wilderness you
really think you can eliminate the
distinction of privilege and power
between a human being and a wild boar or
air or human being and a pig that you
may have rescued from a farm but is now
dependent on human care in a sanctuary
to live out its last days because some
vegans manage to take it away from a
slaughterhouse which happens really you
think the objective of what we're doing
here this whole movement or the
particular people running that sanctuary
or the people who are working and
managing and operating a National Park
conservation area you think any of them
are working towards eliminating the
human privilege human privilege no no
this is about human beings making better
use of the privilege and power that they
have
and a privilege of power that we are
always gonna have an absolute inequality
and yes an absolute responsibility the
human beings have towards animals and
that I think human beings have towards
ecosystems towards the wilderness as a
concept that that's something we do in
effect have to preserve and have to
manage but ineluctably we're going to be
managing those things for our own
benefit even if we are also doing them
in order to you know keep biodiversity
alive so that animals can enjoy their
own lives to some extent independently
in the wild ultimately their human
values that we're imposing on animals
it's not a question of the animals
having in a honourable equal rights that
we have to just let them exercise if you
let a pig out of the slaughterhouse what
are the rights that pig can exercise on
its own the answer is none the pig goes
from one situation of total dependency
on human beings to another situation of
total dependency in human beings the
question is whether the human beings are
using their power and privilege to
exploit and kill that pig for a profit
or for some other better goal whether
it's a wild boar in the forest or a pig
being helped on a sanctuary recites
Bobby would you interest in taking a
flyer it's about your jacket because you
may not be aware but it uses dog fur on
the trim so the trim comes from a coyote
which comes from a species of dog and
what happens they get caught in these
leg-hold traps and sometimes they're in
there for about 72 hours before the
hunter comes to get them but a lot of
these coyotes and mothers so what
happens is their cubs are left alone at
home and they ever get killed by
predators or they starve to death okay
are you aware that the fur trim on your
coats real dog fur did you ask that
permission of the coyote if you could
kill it tell me about what I can bring
on what about the animal why do you tell
her where I can where know what it can't
none of your what about the animal oh is
it the basis of the animal are we
advancing arguments that are so
incoherent that we might if we're really
being honest be driving ourselves crazy
with them
look at for example the abolitionist
arguments against single issue causes so
in this video I'm debating with a guy
named earthling IDI and he's aware of
the critique of his position come from
the abolitionists the abolitionists
claim that it's really Amuro to address
fur in particular try to encourage
people to stop wearing fur coats and
they have this very complex into my mind
somewhat incoherent an irrational
argument as to why addressing any single
issue cause such as fur actually it's
very negative for veganism as a movement
on the whole and I've as you have seen
Ed's response to that and I think Ed's
response is quite meaningful and you
know uh well intention I think he does
address that quite well among other
things ed just says that actually
protesting against fur it's related to
veganism but it's not the same as
veganism and you have to evaluate in a
separate way I think it's a very
intelligent set of reasons he sets out
for why he personally engages in protest
against fur while also being a part of
the vegan movement but that position the
abolitionist position that opposes all
single issue causes I've made videos
really raising the question look if we
really believe this if we really espouse
this and we really live by it is this
singing or insane why would it be vegan
to oppose saving a particular species of
dolphins in a particular River that's a
single issue cause the abolitionists if
they really believe what they're
preaching they would have to say no no
no you're assuming that dolphins are
cute and therefore they ought to have
more rights or more attention for human
beings this is a form of implicit
speciesism and you're only affirming
oppression and blah blah blah the
abolitionists the same way they oppose
anti-fur protests would oppose a
positive ecological charity organization
trying to save a particular species of
dolphin in a particular river trying to
save them from extinction because
they're opposed to all single issue
causes and that is to my mind crazy
and broadly speaking this is one of the
reasons why engage in critique of this
kind meaningful discussion of political
philosophy within veganism for one thing
in general steel sharpens steel we all
become sharper by engaging in these
kinds of examinations of what we believe
why we believe it etc and also I think
there really is this meaningful question
of have we let incoherent and
contradictory assumptions creep into our
line of thinking that might in fact
bring us closer to insanity than sanity
even though we are all supporting and
pursuing this good cause that everyone
watching this video probably agrees as a
good cause veganism as an end goal the
vegan society of vegan world however II
want to think of it or just a handful of
individuals becoming vegan one at a time
and supporting positive political and
social change and yet it's so easy it's
so easy it's so easy for a popular term
like social justice to creep its way
into the discourse and actually really
distort how we think about veganism how
we present veganism how we pursue and
preparing veganism so earthling ed has a
video in which he addresses the
misconception that vegans are forcing
their beliefs on others whether or not
it's a misconception is defeatable hey
guys so I just led to a quick video
today discussing the idea of forcing
beliefs as vegans were always told that
were pushing our beliefs onto others and
I'm not really sure if it's to criticism
at all and I think a good place to start
with this is to view social justice
movements in the past if we look at the
black rights movement they force their
beliefs of equality onto racists and if
we look at the suffragettes movement on
the feminist movement they force their
views of gender equality or misogynists
so to claim that it's negative to force
your beliefs onto others is incredibly
misguided because if social justice
movements did not do this if they didn't
make their needs heard or their beliefs
heard then they would never achieve
their goals it's by forcing your views
and others that a real social change can
be enacted because if you didn't do so
then nothing would ever change right off
the bat
earthling ed is assuming that veganism
is a social justice movement I have a
video that is simply titled veganism is
not a social justice movement so that is
not
should I share with him I would
challenge that assumption I have
challenged in the past but on the basis
of this assumption edy then answers the
objection that vegans forced their
police and others by claiming that
vegans only do so in the same sense in
which any and every social justice
movement must do so and he gives what he
thinks are flattering examples of the
struggle for black rights ie equal
rights for black people really meaning
African Americans the United States I
don't think he's talking about South
Africa maybe is but this sounds like
he's alluding to the history the Unites
States of America and equal rights for
women women's equality now already we
have actually a very fundamental problem
here which is the failure to recognize
the meaning of the term social justice
social justice means distributive
justice and actually the history of the
struggle for black rights the United
States did not aim at distributive
justice or redistribute it did not name
at social justice and also did not
achieve social justice this video would
be even longer than it already is if I
dealt more deeply with the definition of
social justice it is true that social
justice is more specific than
distributive justice or redistribute of
justice most people complain that the
term is still not specific enough
however if you had a social movement
that was for example aimed at taking
away land from men and giving it to
women redistributing land ownership that
might be described as a social justice
movement for women as trying to achieve
social justice women that women ought to
own as much land as men it should be
very obvious to you that equal
opportunity for women the equal right to
vote for women or equal access to
education for men those things are not
social justice issues by the strict
definition of the term black rights the
United States of America try to achieve
equal opportunity and of all the
paradigms to compare to veganism Equal
Opportunity is especially difficult to
relate to the conditions of animals
especially about factory farming
main thing we're talking about here it's
also completely meaningless to try to
apply the concept of equal opportunity
to animals living in the wild in a
national park in a habitat conservation
area
what does equal opportunity mean to a
bear in the forest or to a cow living in
a concrete shed it means nothing it's
completely meaningless and there are
some people including a Friedrich von
Hayek who would claim that social
justice itself is a meaningless concept
it's interesting debate to have I don't
think it's meaningless I think we have
to recognize its particular and specific
meaning and in the same sense that equal
opportunity it's just a concept that
doesn't apply to animals in these cases
in the same way we have to recognize
that social justice doesn't apply to
animals in these ways the people who
support domesticated pets and who care a
lot about legal rights for dogs and cats
that's a movement within veganism we
don't talk about that much of this
channel it's called the citizenship
approach so for example those people
want to see laws passed so that if a
poor family owns a dog or cat and they
can't afford surgery
then the government will in effect
provide health care for this dog or pet
so that they don't have to just kill the
animal don't put it down they feel it's
against the rights the animals just be
killed for the convenience of the family
that owns the the pet or to be killed
because of the poverty of the family
that owns the pet so it's a very
straightforward concept but nevertheless
we can't actually describe this in terms
of equal opportunity or social justice
it's not social justice for a dog or a
cat that has had its testicles chopped
off may have had its talent sorry its
claws pulled out of its palms may have
had its teeth removed may have had all
these surgical modifications made to its
body so that it just lives like a toy
for human entertainment there's no
there's no sense of social justice and
then providing that animal with yet more
surgeries to extend the animal's life
extend its status if perpetual
dependency living on this family's
carpet that's non equality that's not
equal opportunity that's not social
justice and it may nevertheless be a
question worth asking if poor people own
dogs and cats and then those dogs and
cats need expensive surgeries legally
what is the responsibility the taxpayer
you tell me so it is not so easy to
invoke the name of black rights civil
rights for African Americans and to say
well they force their beliefs on others
is exactly what Earthling had claims
here therefore it's okay for vegans to
divorce the closest it's actually
tremendously meaningful to recognize
that the time of the nine states of
america in the united states the
government did not force these beliefs
others it remained your civil right in
the United States to believe whatever
you want to believe those movements did
not seek to create uniformity of belief
in America and they did not even seek to
deprive for example a Christian preacher
of the freedom to save racist things
which they continued saying there are
still to this day white churches in
America that preach against black people
and there are although more rarely you
can see examples of racist black
churches that preach against white
people in America and preach that white
people devil they very much have freedom
of expression to voice those opinions
freedom of belief and even the freedom
to organize those racist views into
formal churches and political parties so
again Earthling ad is British you may
not understand this you may not
appreciate the significance of this but
the civil rights movement black rights
equal rights for African Americans never
aimed at forcing their beliefs and
others and the United States because
their constitutional tradition it
actually very much preserved the freedom
of belief for people still to this day
in the United States it is legal to have
a whites-only church or a blacks only
church and you can see that all over
America and the things that the
preachers are preaching inside those
churches whether they're Christian or
some other religion or they're a new-age
cult or what-have-you
be racist they have freedom of opinion
which includes freedom of racism and
freedom of belief okay so black rights
did not try to change people's beliefs
they tried to change government policy
what are those policy changes aimed at
they're aimed at equal opportunity so
what really mattered for civil rights
the United States for example yes
there's an obvious question can black
people actually vote and there were a
number of hurdles and obstacles and
changes that to be made because in many
parts the United States in theory black
people had the right to vote vote but in
practice they couldn't really make it
happen there have been unfair obstacles
created they're exercising that right
but much trickier where things are
looking at did black people and white
people actually have an equal ability to
get a bank loan in order to buy a house
or to build a new house how do you
legislate racism out of the banking
system so that people truly have equal
opportunity how do you legislate racism
out of the hiring process at large
institutions so that black people and
white people truly have equal
opportunity how do you amend and revise
an education system which in the United
States had been built on segregation had
been built on elitism including openly a
racist elitism how do you change that
education system so that black people
and white people have equal opportunity
and the results were imperfect but they
were dramatically better in the 1990s
than they were in the 1940s tremendous
change not aimed at forcing beliefs is
not about belief it was about equal
opportunity and if you're really honest
with yourself and you really care about
being consistent just think open to the
meaning of these words and what they
would mean your own life if you believed
in them and practice them consistently I
think you have to admit to yourself that
equal opportunity is completely
meaningless in reference to a pig that's
awaiting slaughter in a slaughterhouse
if we rescue that pig we can't grant any
cooperate
we can't graduate granted equal rights
the best thing we can probably do for
that pick right now in 2017 is either
put it in a sanctuary or try to
rehabilitate it to some extent and
introduce it back into the wild if that
pig can to some extent it enjoy its life
as a wild boar would if it can be
rehabilitated trained to have some kind
of positive life but no matter which way
you look at it the pig that's eaten all
its food out of a human hand is not in a
position to exercise equal rights it's
meaningless it's meaningless whether
we're talking about the wilderness or
we're talking about a farm or we're
talking about pets living the whole
lives in the rock there are plenty of
positive things about earthling edie his
approach to activism and his youtube
channel and above all else he does have
the redeeming quality of keeping it real
because he's honest with his audience
he's honest about the shortcomings of
his approach to activism
he's honest developed when it goes wrong
when it just doesn't accomplish much
when he has these conversations with
strangers don't really go anywhere I
think we all can kind of learn from his
experience and learn from his mistakes
as they unfold on screen he has been
doing this for about a year and a half
his current approach to veganism and I
think he probably will adapt and take on
new methods new angles in the years
ahead so for all that I kind of
congratulate him and I appreciate him
and I wish them the best
and I think whether viewers are just
looking at as entertainment or really
looking at it and questioning in their
own lives what they can do what is
effective active doesn't mean to them a
lot more good comes out of it than harm
well that hadn't been said I really do
find that watching his videos is yet
another reminder how some of these
simple assumptions can lead to false and
counterproductive and even insane
beliefs within veganism it may seem so
simple and so appealing to argue that
the objective of veganism is a crusade
against privilege but it's not it does
not make sense to present or pursue
veganism as the abolition
of human privilege that is simply insane
human beings are now privileged when
contrast to a bear in the wild I want us
to use that privilege to have practices
of wildlife habitat management
conservation that respect the bears
their dignity in life and their dignity
and death and prevent them from going
extinct that manage their numbers when
they get too low or and it gets you high
overpopulation under population if
there's a plague that breaks out in the
forest I do not see any sense in which I
can imagine the future of this planet as
one in which human beings have no
privilege when they're compared to bears
or no privilege when they're compared to
cows or no privilege when they're
compared to pigs let alone cockroaches
mosquitoes and bedbugs that is simply
crazy and thinking of our objectives
that way thinking of our means that way
and then offering it as a justification
for the shortcomings in our approaches
when people say well aren't you
imposing your beliefs on others I don't
think it's a meaningful or rational or
fair comeback to say well we're a social
justice movement and it's partly because
I don't believe that we are if you sit
down and really think in a meaningful
way about what social justice means what
it means for us and what it would mean
for the animals and apart from that it's
not really sincerely grappling with the
issue earthling ad chooses flattering
examples he says what about black rights
civil rights women's rights well what
about the history of the Catholic Church
what about the history of Islam what
about the history of forcing your
beliefs on others conversion by the
sword
what about really examining what people
mean when they talk about forcing your
beliefs on others and why it is such a
dangerous thing in human political
history whether we're talking about
communism or conservative Islam across
the board
why don't we take that seriously why
don't we show uh sincere interest in
examining what's wrong in our own
movements and learning from the history
of other movements instead of dismissing
it with this sort of cynical ploy of
saying well what about women's rights
what about black rights struggles that
we are ourselves I think Edie we can say
we are ourselves not experts in that
we're not sincerely examining in terms
of the very little bit they have in
common with veganism and how much they
don't have in common veganism ultimately
emancipation of black people in United
States relied on a civil war and nobody
and veganism is talking about how to
sell war the differences are much more
meaningful and of a great much greater
magnitude than the similarities but a
simple subtle idea of this kind social
justice inserts itself early on into how
we think about veganism and then it
leads to conclusions that veganism is
somehow an attempt to get rid of the
distinctions of greater than and less
than that it's a mission to abolish
privilege and that human beings is Ed
says himself he claims that human beings
feel guilty because they're in this
position of power and privilege that
must end
edie the power and privilege we have
over animals is never gonna end
and you and I as vegans are never gonna
stop eating bread and beans vegetables
that are produced if we're keeping all
the way real everyday by killing animals
Gophers groundhogs
there's a huge array of insect and
mammal life that we kill every day
whether it's on a fruit farm on a wheat
farm or on a bean farm or what-have-you
if we really believe that the vegan
movement was as you described it an
attempt to abolish the privilege the
superiority that human beings exercised
over animals I think we would be insane
and on the contrary if we look at it as
a more respond
scible use of that power of privilege of
facing up to the moral responsibility
that's incumbent on us to do the best we
can with that privilege and to stop
thinking in terms of short-term self
gratification or just clinging on to
really a bunch of cultural customs that
are now obsolete then how we think about
veganism how we practice it in our own
lives changes how we present it to
others changes and yeah I think in a
really meaningful sense the future of
the movement changes too